.TH ZEEK\-CLIENT "1" "" "zeek\-client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
zeek\-client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zeek\-client
[-h] [-c FILE] [--controller HOST:PORT] [--set SECTION.KEY=VAL] [--quiet | --verbose] [--version] {deploy,deploy-config,get-config,get-id-value,get-instances,get-nodes,monitor,restart,stage-config,show-settings,test-timeout} ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
A command\-line client for Zeek's Management Framework.

Use this client to push cluster configurations to a cluster controller, retrieve
running state from the system, restart nodes, and more.

For details about Zeek's Management Framework, please consult the documentation
at https://docs.zeek.org/en/master/frameworks/management.html.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fI\,FILE\/\fR, \fB\-\-configfile\fR \fI\,FILE\/\fR
Path to zeek\-client config file. (Default: @ZEEK_CLIENT_CONFIG_FILE@)

.TP
\fB\-\-controller\fR \fI\,HOST:PORT\/\fR
Address and port of the controller, either of which may be omitted (default: 127.0.0.1:2149)

.TP
\fB\-\-set\fR \fI\,SECTION.KEY=VAL\/\fR
Adjust a configuration setting. Can use repeatedly. See show\-settings.

.TP
\fB\-\-quiet\fR, \fB\-q\fR
Suppress informational output to stderr.

.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR, \fB\-v\fR
Increase informational output to stderr. Repeat for more output (e.g. \-vvv).

.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version number and exit.

.SH
COMMANDS
.SS \fBzeek\-client deploy\fR
Deploy a staged cluster configuration.

usage: zeek\-client deploy [\-h]
.SS \fBzeek\-client deploy\-config\fR
Upload a cluster configuration and deploy it.

usage: zeek\-client deploy\-config [\-h] FILE

arguments:
.RS 7
.TP
\fBFILE\fR
Cluster configuration file, "\-" for stdin
.RE

.SS \fBzeek\-client get\-config\fR
Retrieve staged or deployed cluster configuration.

usage: zeek\-client get\-config [\-h] [\-\-filename FILE] [\-\-as\-json]
                              [\-\-deployed | \-\-staged]

options:
.RS 7
.TP
\fB\-\-filename\fR \fI\,FILE\/\fR, \fB\-f\fR \fI\,FILE\/\fR
Output file for the configuration, default stdout

.TP
\fB\-\-as\-json\fR
Report in JSON instead of INI\-style config file

.TP
\fB\-\-deployed\fR
Return deployed configuration

.TP
\fB\-\-staged\fR
Return staged configuration (default)
.RE

.SS \fBzeek\-client get\-id\-value\fR
Show the value of a given identifier in Zeek cluster nodes.

usage: zeek\-client get\-id\-value [\-h] IDENTIFIER [NODES ...]

arguments:
.RS 7
.TP
\fBIDENTIFIER\fR
Name of the Zeek script identifier to retrieve.

.TP
\fBNODES\fR
Name(s) of Zeek cluster nodes to query. When omitted, queries all nodes.
.RE

.SS \fBzeek\-client get\-instances\fR
Show instances connected to the controller.

usage: zeek\-client get\-instances [\-h]
.SS \fBzeek\-client get\-nodes\fR
Show active Zeek nodes at each instance.

usage: zeek\-client get\-nodes [\-h]
.SS \fBzeek\-client monitor\fR
For troubleshooting: do nothing, just report events.

usage: zeek\-client monitor [\-h]
.SS \fBzeek\-client restart\fR
Restart cluster nodes.

usage: zeek\-client restart [\-h] [NODES ...]

arguments:
.RS 7
.TP
\fBNODES\fR
Name(s) of Zeek cluster nodes to restart. When omitted, restarts all nodes.
.RE

.SS \fBzeek\-client stage\-config\fR
Upload a cluster configuration for later deployment.

usage: zeek\-client stage\-config [\-h] FILE

arguments:
.RS 7
.TP
\fBFILE\fR
Cluster configuration file, "\-" for stdin
.RE

.SS \fBzeek\-client show\-settings\fR
Show zeek-client's own configuration.

usage: zeek\-client show\-settings [\-h]
.SS \fBzeek\-client test\-timeout\fR
Send timeout test event.

usage: zeek\-client test\-timeout [\-h] [\-\-with\-state]

options:
.RS 7
.TP
\fB\-\-with\-state\fR
Make request stateful in the controller.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
The client exits with 0 on
success and 1 if a problem arises, such as lack of a response from the
controller, unexpected response data, or the controller explicitly reporting an
error in its handling of a command.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
zeek-client supports the following environment variables:

    ZEEK_CLIENT_CONFIG_FILE:      Same as `--configfile` argument, but lower precedence.
    ZEEK_CLIENT_CONFIG_SETTINGS:  Same as a space-separated series of `--set` arguments, but lower precedence.
.SH SUGGESTIONS AND BUG REPORTS
The Management Framework and this client are experimental
software. The Zeek team welcomes your feedback. Please file issues on Github at
https://github.com/zeek/zeek-client/issues, or contact us on Discourse or Slack:
https://zeek.org/community
